Installing ConnectionsBundle
==============================


Installation
------------

Change composer:

    "doctrine/orm": ">=2.5",
    "doctrine/dbal": ">=2.5",

run `composer update`

Now add to composer:

    "ongr/connections-bundle": "~0.8.1"

And `composer install`

Add to Kernel:  `new ONGR\ConnectionsBundle\ONGRConnectionsBundle(),`

Add data to MySQL
-----------------

You already have Elasticsearch database with product type. Now you need Mysql database. 
This Bundle will import data from Mysql into elasticsearch database.

Before start, make sure or you have installed MySQL into your computer. Open terminal and write `mysql --version`. If it responsed with normal version then it is installed.

First, check your app/config/parameters.yml:

 or `database_name` is not used. If not sure, name it randomly, any name you want.
 
 or `database_user` is good. Usually for me is allways `root`
 
 or `database_password` is good. Usually for me is `root`. But for you it can differ. My parameters.yml is like that:

    # This file is auto-generated during the composer install
    parameters:
        database_host: 127.0.0.1
        database_port: null
        database_name: gaga
        database_user: root
        database_password: root
        mailer_transport: smtp
        mailer_host: 127.0.0.1
        mailer_user: null
        mailer_password: null
        secret: ThisTokenIsNotSoSecretChangeIt


generate Entity/Product via console, type: `app/console doctrine:generate:entity`,  

add fields: stock(int), flower(str), place(str)

create mysql DB via console, type: `app/console doctrine:database:create`

create mysql Table with your Product columns and rows via console, type: `app/console doctrine:schema:create`

Give some data to Mysql database
--------------------------------
You can do it via console or any GUI. Include some products with their flower, stock and place values. 

Config/config.yml?
----------------------------------------

Usually for ElasticsearchBundle and filtermanagerBundle we needed to add something to config/config.yml file.
But for ConnectionsBundle dont need to do anything for this basic example. For advanced usage maybe will be needed, but not now.

Controller?
-----------

Also dont need any controller. It works good with console commands. Later you can manage you self how to use this, maybe with CRON jobs. So, dont change your having controllers.


services.yml?
-------------

It is the main part. Just open app/config/services.yml and add this code:

    parameters:
        connections_import_modifier.class: AppBundle\Services\ImportModifyEventListener
    
    services:
        test.import.source:
            class: %ongr_connections.import.source.class%
            parent: ongr_connections.import.source
            arguments:
                - @doctrine.orm.default_entity_manager
                - AppBundle:Product  # my.doctrine.entity.class
                - @es.manager
                - AppBundle:Product  # my.elasticsearch.entity.class
            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: ongr.pipeline.import.default.source, method: onSource }
    
    
        test.import.modifier:
    #        parent: ongr_connections.import.modifier
            class: %connections_import_modifier.class%
            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: ongr.pipeline.import.default.modify, method: onModify }
    
        test.import.consumer:
            class: %ongr_connections.import.consumer.class%
            parent: ongr_connections.import.consumer
            arguments:
                - @es.manager
            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: ongr.pipeline.import.default.consume, method: onConsume }
    
        test.import.finish:
            class: %ongr_connections.import.finish.class%
            parent: ongr_connections.import.finish
            arguments:
                - @es.manager
            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: ongr.pipeline.import.default.finish, method: onFinish }



If you have differently named Bundles, Project or files, what you can need to change is at `parameters` and `services->test.import.source->arguments`, 
change the `AppBundle:Product` of mysql and for elasticserach to your having ones.

But if you do my way, dont change anything here.

Services
--------

for this `connections_import_modifier.class` we need to make a service.
Just create new folder at src/AppBundle named `Services` and add a File named `ImportModifyEventListener.php`:


    <?php
    
    namespace AppBundle\Services;
    
    use AppBundle\Document\Product as ElasticSearchProduct;
    use AppBundle\Entity\Product as MysqlProduct;
    use ONGR\ConnectionsBundle\EventListener\AbstractImportModifyEventListener;
    use ONGR\ConnectionsBundle\Pipeline\Event\ItemPipelineEvent;
    use ONGR\ConnectionsBundle\Pipeline\Item\AbstractImportItem;
    
    
    class ImportModifyEventListener extends AbstractImportModifyEventListener
    {
    
        /**
         * Assigns data in entity to relevant fields in document.
         *
         * @param AbstractImportItem $eventItem
         * @param ItemPipelineEvent $event
         */
        protected function modify(AbstractImportItem $eventItem, ItemPipelineEvent $event)
        {
            /** @var MysqlProduct $data */
            $data = $eventItem->getEntity();
            /** @var ElasticSearchProduct $document */
            $document = $eventItem->getDocument();
    
            $document->setId($data->getId());
            $document->setFlower($data->getFlower());
            $document->setPlace($data->getPlace());
            $document->setStock($data->getStock());
        }
    }



Product
-------

As you see above, we need to edit our ElasticSrearch Product to have getters and setters.
Go to `src/AppBundle/Document/Product` and make it like that:



    <?php
    namespace AppBundle\Document;
    
    use ONGR\ElasticsearchBundle\Annotation as ES;
    use ONGR\ElasticsearchBundle\Document\AbstractDocument;
    
    /**
     * @ES\Document(type="product")
     */
    class Product extends AbstractDocument
    {
        /**
         * @var integer
         *
         * @ES\Property(name="stock", type="integer")
         */
        public $stock;
    
        /**
         * @var string
         *
         * @ES\Property(name="flower", type="string")
         */
        public $flower;
    
        /**
         * @var string
         *
         * @ES\Property(name="place", type="string")
         */
        public $place;
    
        /**
         * @return int
         */
        public function getStock()
        {
            return $this->stock;
        }
    
        /**
         * @param int $stock
         */
        public function setStock($stock)
        {
            $this->stock = $stock;
        }
    
        /**
         * @return string
         */
        public function getFlower()
        {
            return $this->flower;
        }
    
        /**
         * @param string $flower
         */
        public function setFlower($flower)
        {
            $this->flower = $flower;
        }
    
        /**
         * @return string
         */
        public function getPlace()
        {
            return $this->place;
        }
    
        /**
         * @param string $place
         */
        public function setPlace($place)
        {
            $this->place = $place;
        }
    }


Commands
--------

Ok, seems everything is prepared for basic usage.

Open the terminal and write:

`app/console ongr:import:full`

Should reply something like that:

 3 [============================]
Job finished in 0.18 s
Memory usage: 34.00 MB

If Job finished in 0.00s -> it means something is wrong.

If it was OK, then you have merged MySQL into ElasticSearch.
You can check this maybe if you use FIlterManagerBundle -> Search and find your Products by flower or place you have inputted by your own into mysql.

If you got error like `Indentation problem` or something with Indentation, you should re-check your app/config/services.yml.
Probably you got too many or too less whitespaces on any row. Find in google more about `whitespaces in yaml` if this happened.
